# Predicting Cancer Diagnoses using Image Classification

This project's goal is creating a model that can identify cancer stage/categorization results based on labelled images. We will focus on acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) microscopic cellular images in our training, identifying benign, early pre-b, pre-b, and pro-b diagnoses.

We collected the data from [Obuli Sai Naren's Multi Cancer Dataset on Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/obulisainaren/multi-cancer/data). This dataset includes categorized and sorted images for ALL, brain, breast, cervical, kidney, lung, colon, lymphoma, and oral cancer, and was augmented using Keras's  class, with each cancer region having 5000 images. This is more than enough for both training and testing. Should we want additional images and a more verbose testing/modeling, we could always pull images elsewhere as well, since medical scans should be consistent.

The model will use image processing tools like OpenCV to classify and model the data. The images are already pretty well prepossed, looking very similar to each other with both sizing and coloring, thus we expect minimal cleaning/preprocessing of the data. The exact details of this process will be developed upon in the future as we learn more, including the algorithm and model we'll use. To visualize our model's results, we will use bar graphs, ROC curves, and image heatmaps using Grad-CAM techniques to display accuracy metrics. Our plan will be to utilize a subset of the total dataset in training, before testing it with a separate subset proportional to ALL distribution in real life, with a separate subset of images for validation in cross-validating.